docs: docs for retrieval (#808)
jina-ai/clip-as-service: docs/user-guides/retrieval.md

# Retrieval in CLIP-as-service

> `CLIP-as-service` offers us high quality embeddings. Retrieval is one of the most common use cases for embeddings. Retrieval in CLIP-as-service can support indexing a very large dataset(millions/billions) and querying within several million seconds.

Reviewer: milliseconds

Author: good catch

Reviewer 2: `several millionseconds` is not clear. 10 ms, vs 100ms, vs 500ms. As my understanding, 10ms is serveral ms. I don't think we can archive this performance.

│   Common Attributes      ('id', 'mime_type', 'text', 'tags', 'embedding')   │
│   Multimodal dataclass   False                                              │
│                                                                             │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
╭────────────────────── Attributes Summary ───────────────────────╮
│                                                                 │
│   Attribute   Data type      #Unique values   Has empty value   │
│  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────  │
│   embedding   ('ndarray',)   1                False             │
│   id          ('str',)       1                False             │
│   mime_type   ('str',)       1                False             │
│   tags        ('dict',)      1                False             │
│   text        ('str',)       1                False             │
│                                                                 │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

You don't need to call `client.encode()` explicitly since `client.index()` will handle this for you.

> Similar to `CLIP-as-service`, you need to prepare a YAML config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to `clip_server`, you need to prepare a YAML config:
```

Reviewer 2: the user can directly use the default yaml we created (e.g., `search_flow.yaml` is install via pip as well), e.g., :
```
python -m clip_server search_flow.yaml
```

```yaml
jtype: Flow
version: '1'
with:
  port: 51000
executors:
  - name: encoder
    uses:
      jtype: CLIPEncoder
      metas:
        py_modules:
          - clip_server.executors.clip_torch
  - name: indexer
  	uses:
  	  jtype: AnnLiteIndexer
  	  with:
  	  	dim: 512

>   	  	data_path: workspace

Reviewer 2: `data_path` parameter will be deprecated since it cannot work with multi-shards.

You need to speicify the `shards` and `polling` in YAML config:
```yaml
jtype: Flow
version: '1'
with:
  port: 51000
executors:
  - name: encoder
    uses:
      jtype: CLIPEncoder
      metas:
        py_modules:
          - clip_server.executors.clip_torch
  - name: indexer
  	uses:
  	  jtype: AnnLiteIndexer
  	  with:
  	  	dim: 512  # input dimension of PCA
  	  	data_path: workspace
  	  	n_components: 128  # output dimension of PCA
  	  metas:
  	  	py_modules:
  	  	  - annlite.executor
  	shards: 5
  	polling: {'/index': 'ANY', '/search': 'ALL', '/update': 'ALL',
              '/delete': 'ALL', '/status': 'ALL'}
```

| Parameter               | Description                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `shards`                  | Number of shardings. |
| `polling` | Polling strategy for different endpoints.|

> ### Why different polling strategies are needed for different endpoints?

Reviewer 2: please provide the reference link as well

Author: what reference did you mean?

Author: ok i see, link for polling strategies

# Retrieval in CLIP-as-service

> `CLIP-as-service` offers us high-quality embeddings. Retrieval is one of the most common use cases for embeddings. Retrieval in `CLIP-as-service` can support indexing a very large dataset (millions/billions) and querying within 50ms, depending on the machine.

Reviewer: CAS supports or CAS can index;
depending on the machine configurations

> In order to implement retrieval, we add an extra indexer after the encoder in CLIP-as-service. We use [`AnnLite`](https://github.com/jina-ai/annlite) in this case. 

Reviewer: We add an 'Annlite' based indexer in CAS

## Fast search in CLIP-as-service

> Index and search are easy in `CLIP-as-service`:

Reviewer: Indexing and searching

```python
from clip_client import Client

client = Client('grpc://0.0.0.0:23456')

# index
r = client.index(
    [
        'she smiled, with pain',  # text
        'https://clip-as-service.jina.ai/_static/favicon.png',  # image

>     ]

Reviewer: would it be better to use docarray?
and add one or two more candidates

Author: This is the example from cas client api document

)

# search
client.search(['smile'])
```

> The results will be like this:

Reviewer: will look like

│   Homogenous Documents   True                                               │
│   Common Attributes      ('id', 'mime_type', 'text', 'tags', 'embedding')   │
│   Multimodal dataclass   False                                              │
│                                                                             │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
╭────────────────────── Attributes Summary ───────────────────────╮
│                                                                 │
│   Attribute   Data type      #Unique values   Has empty value   │
│  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────  │
│   embedding   ('ndarray',)   1                False             │
│   id          ('str',)       1                False             │
│   mime_type   ('str',)       1                False             │
│   tags        ('dict',)      1                False             │
│   text        ('str',)       1                False             │
│                                                                 │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

> ```

Reviewer: Can you explain a little bit more about this, people who use it for the first time may get confused by this summary

You don't need to call `client.encode()` explicitly since `client.index()` will handle this for you.

Similar to `clip_server`, you can directly use the YAML config we have prepared for you by simple running:

```bash
python -m clip_server search_flow.yaml
```

The YAML config looks like this:
```yaml
jtype: Flow
version: '1'
with:
  port: 51000
executors:
  - name: encoder
    uses:
      jtype: CLIPEncoder
      metas:
        py_modules:
          - clip_server.executors.clip_torch
  - name: indexer
    uses:
      jtype: AnnLiteIndexer
      with:
        dim: 512
      metas:
        py_modules:
          - annlite.executor
```

| Parameter               | Description                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `dim`                  | Dimension of embeddings. Default is 512 since the output dimension of `CLIP` model is 512.|

## How to lower memory footprint?

> Sometimes the indexer will use a lot of memory because the HNSW indexer (which is used by `AnnLite`) is stored in memory. The efficient way to reduce memory footprint is dimension reduction. Retrieval in CLIP-as-service use [`Principal component analysis(PCA)`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principal_component_analysis#:~:text=Principal%20component%20analysis%20(PCA)%20is,components%20and%20ignoring%20the%20rest.) to achieve this.

Reviewer: I would simply say 'because the Annlite indexer is stored in memory' or something like this. People may wonder what is HNSW if there is no explanation. Please also add link to Annlite everywhere

### Training PCA
In order to train a PCA model, you need to prepare training data. 
```python
from annlite.index import AnnLite
import numpy as np

index = AnnLite(dim=512, n_components=128)
index.train(train_data)

> ```

Reviewer: Put this block after 'how to create `train_data`'

```

Once the training is done you will see the following outputs:
```text
2022-08-23 15:55:42.360 | INFO     | annlite.index:__init__:105 - Initialize Projector codec (n_components=128)
2022-08-23 15:55:42.375 | INFO     | annlite.index:train:191 - Start training Projector codec (n_components=128) with 1000 data...
2022-08-23 15:55:42.709 | INFO     | annlite.index:train:208 - The annlite is successfully trained!
2022-08-23 15:55:42.709 | INFO     | annlite.index:dump_model:543 - Save the parameters to workspace/parameters-dc287b278624be46d50b0d5cf7f9d59f
```

You will see a folder called `parameters-dc287b278624be46d50b0d5cf7f9d59f` under `workspace` which stores the PCA model.

### Load PCA model in server
In order to use PCA on the server side you need to add `n_components` inside the YAML config:
```yaml
jtype: Flow
version: '1'
with:
  port: 51000
executors:
  - name: encoder
    uses:
      jtype: CLIPEncoder
      metas:
        py_modules:
          - clip_server.executors.clip_torch
  - name: indexer
  	uses:
  	  jtype: AnnLiteIndexer
  	  with:
  	  	dim: 512  # input dimension of PCA

>   	  	n_components: 128  # output dimension of PCA

Reviewer: A highlight on this line would be better

  	  metas:
  	  	py_modules:
  	  	  - annlite.executor
```

### Memory usage before and after PCA

> Here is the comparison of memory usage before and after PCA when indexing 10 million data:

Reviewer: Does the machine configuration matters? If yes, please also include it

  	  with:
  	  	dim: 512  # input dimension of PCA
  	  	n_components: 128  # output dimension of PCA
  	  metas:
  	  	py_modules:
  	  	  - annlite.executor
  	shards: 5
  	polling: {'/index': 'ANY', '/search': 'ALL', '/update': 'ALL',
              '/delete': 'ALL', '/status': 'ALL'}
```

| Parameter               | Description                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `shards`                  | Number of shardings. |
| `polling` | Polling strategies for different endpoints.|

Then you can perform exactly the same operations as we do on a single machine.(`/encode`, `/index` and `/search`)

### Why different [polling strategies](https://docs.jina.ai/how-to/scale-out/?highlight=polling#different-polling-strategies) are needed for different endpoints?

Differences between `ANY` and `ALL`:
- `ANY`: requests are sent to one of the executors.
- `ALL`: requests are sent to all executors.

```{figure} images/polling_stratey.png
:width: 80%

```

> Since one data point only needed to be indexed once, there will only be one indexer executor that will handle this data point. Thus, `ANY` is used for `/index`. On the contrary, search operations needed to be handled by all indexer executors since we don't know which executor store the perfectly matched result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since one data point only needs to be indexed once, there will only be one indexer executor that will handle this data point. Thus, `ANY` is used for `/index`. On the contrary, search operations needed to be handled by all indexer executors since we don't know which executor stores the perfectly matched result so `ALL` is used.
```

```{Warning}
Increasing the number of shardings will definitely alleviate the memory issue, but it will increase the latency since there will be more network connections between different shards.
```

> ## How to deploy it on the cloud?

Reviewer: is this duplicated with [https://clip-as-service.jina.ai/hosting/on-jcloud/](https://clip-as-service.jina.ai/hosting/on-jcloud/)?

Author: yes but this didn't tell users how to send request to flow

Reviewer: maybe after you finished the main part, just add a section on that page?

# Retrieval in CLIP-as-service
`CLIP-as-service` offers us high-quality embeddings. Retrieval is one of the most common use cases for embeddings. Retrieval in `CLIP-as-service` support indexing a very large dataset (millions/billions) and querying within 50ms, depending on the machine.

> In order to implement retrieval, we add an [`AnnLite`](https://github.com/jina-ai/annlite) indexer executor after the encoder executor in CLIP-as-service.

Reviewer 3: It would be nice to give a high-level overview of how the retrieval works/which steps make up the process -> the part from: How Jina eco-system makes cross-modality simple and efficient

> 

Reviewer 3: a table of contents would be nice

Author: a table about what?

Reviewer 3: [something like this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Table_of_contents) :)

Author: I think we already have one here on the right side of the page: 
<img width="286" alt="Screen Shot 2022-09-07 at 2 47 32 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16580382/188808394-1d701b4d-8713-4634-9686-30c6750ab766.png">

## Fast search in CLIP-as-service
Indexing and searching are easy in `CLIP-as-service`:

```python
from clip_client import Client

client = Client('grpc://0.0.0.0:23456')

# index
client.index(
    [
        Document(text='she smiled, with pain'),  # text
        Document(uri='apple.png'),  # local image
        Document(
            uri='https://clip-as-service.jina.ai/_static/favicon.png'
        ),  # online image
    ]
)

# search
client.search(['smile'])
```

> The results will look like this:

Reviewer 3: What does this image/section tell me as a user? -> Not quite clear to me, but i don't have a lot of experience with Jina yet

│   Homogenous Documents   True                                               │
│   Common Attributes      ('id', 'mime_type', 'text', 'tags', 'embedding')   │
│   Multimodal dataclass   False                                              │
│                                                                             │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
╭────────────────────── Attributes Summary ───────────────────────╮
│                                                                 │
│   Attribute   Data type      #Unique values   Has empty value   │
│  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────  │
│   embedding   ('ndarray',)   1                False             │
│   id          ('str',)       1                False             │
│   mime_type   ('str',)       1                False             │
│   tags        ('dict',)      1                False             │
│   text        ('str',)       1                False             │
│                                                                 │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

> You don't need to call `client.encode()` explicitly since `client.index()` will handle this for you.

Reviewer 3: Is there a reason that i should expect to call `encode` at this position?

Author: Before you call `client.index()`, you should have embeddings first.

Similar to `clip_server`, you can directly use the YAML config we have prepared for you by simple running:

```bash
python -m clip_server search_flow.yaml
```

The YAML config looks like this:
```yaml
jtype: Flow
version: '1'
with:
  port: 51000
executors:
  - name: encoder
    uses:
      jtype: CLIPEncoder
      metas:
        py_modules:
          - clip_server.executors.clip_torch
  - name: indexer
    uses:
      jtype: AnnLiteIndexer
      with:
        dim: 512
      metas:
        py_modules:
          - annlite.executor
```

| Parameter               | Description                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `dim`                  | Dimension of embeddings. Default is 512 since the output dimension of `CLIP` model is 512.|

## How to lower memory footprint?

> Sometimes the indexer will use a lot of memory because the HNSW indexer (which is used by `AnnLite`) is stored in memory. The efficient way to reduce memory footprint is dimension reduction. Retrieval in CLIP-as-service use [`Principal component analysis(PCA)`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principal_component_analysis#:~:text=Principal%20component%20analysis%20(PCA)%20is,components%20and%20ignoring%20the%20rest.) to achieve this.

Reviewer 3: Do we know _when_ it will use a lot of memory? Are there any drawbacks to PCA?
Otherwise this seems like a freebie that should always be done -> less memory, same performance

Author: Good idea,  will do it.

# Retrieval in CLIP-as-service
### Basics of retrieval
Retrieval is one of the most common use cases for embeddings. Usually retrieval contains two parts: encoding and indexing:

```{figure} images/retreival.png
:width: 80%
```

> ### Multi-modality retreival in `CLIP-as-service`

Reviewer 2: typo "retreival"

│   Attribute   Data type      #Unique values   Has empty value   │
│  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────  │
│   embedding   ('ndarray',)   1                False             │
│   id          ('str',)       1                False             │
│   mime_type   ('str',)       1                False             │
│   tags        ('dict',)      1                False             │
│   text        ('str',)       1                False             │
│                                                                 │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

You don't need to call `client.encode()` explicitly since `client.index()` will handle this for you.

Similar to `clip_server`, you can directly use the YAML config we have prepared for you by simple running:

```bash
python -m clip_server search_flow.yaml
```

The YAML config looks like this:
```yaml
jtype: Flow
version: '1'
with:
  port: 51000
executors:
  - name: encoder
    uses:
      jtype: CLIPEncoder
      metas:
        py_modules:
          - clip_server.executors.clip_torch
  - name: indexer
    uses:
      jtype: AnnLiteIndexer

>       with:

Reviewer 2: I prefer to place the server flow part before the client example.
